1. using straightforward formulas such as from the birthday paradox, Knuth or the F8-paper, one always finds that k = 1 on every machine is optimal for all M <= 16 (and probably also for greater M).
2. In the conjecture of Pollard and Brent, one level of heuristic assumptions can be removed by proving that the distribution of $\iota$ is binomial.
3. experiments show that when we have $M = 3$, $4 \not \vert \space (p - 1), 6 \not \vert \space (p - 1)$ and ignore the cost of exponentiation, then choosing $K = [1, 2, 3]$ is significantly better than $K = [1, 1, 1]$. Or on the other hand, if one does not ignore the costs of exponentiation, the slowdown is much weaker than predicted by the formulas. (in the experiments, pollard rho was executed on a prime). This contradicts the assumption that the various graphs are independent and random. 
4. when we do the experiment with semiprimes where each prime factor satisfies the above congruences, a similar phenomenon occurs.
5. When going over the primes between 2^8 and 2^10, doing the Floyd algorithm for each pair in Z/pZ^2 and taking the minimum number iterations of the two runs, something similar as described above can be observed (choosing one of the two k's as 1 and the other 2 / 3 is better even when the gcd is 2 in both cases).
6. One observes that even though the minimum of one specifc k with itself is the lowest, the min of this with another k comes very close to that minimum (i.e. let k1 such that min(k1, k1) has the lowest expectation, then the expected value of min(k1, k2) ist much close to min(k1, k1) than to min(k2, k2)).
7. The overestimation of the time to collision for M > 1 could (or does probably) come from the fact that nodes with smaller nu generally have a higher chance of having many non-disjoint paths with other nodes, since they tend to be in the cycle or close to the cycle.
8. The steps to collision on the graph of a single prime normalized by sqrt p evolve approximately like 1/(cbrt M) as one varies M (1 <= M <= 80). If one does the same with semiprimes, the steps are somewhere between 1/(sqrt M) and 1/(cbrt M) which probably comes from the fact that we don't only walk on one graph here, but on two simultaneously (in fact, the number of steps required to get a collision on a semiprime with some number of machines M all iterating at k = 1 should be equal to the number of steps until collision on a prime with 2M machines, the first half iterating at k = 1 and the second half iterating at some k > 1, such that gcd(k, (p - 1) / 2) == 2.)